
- guide

        https://web.mit.edu/rhel-doc/5/RHEL-5-manual/Deployment_Guide-en-US/ch-networkscripts.html

- Network Configuration Files

        /etc/hosts
        The main purpose of this file is to resolve hostnames that cannot be resolved any other way. It can also be used to resolve hostnames on small networks with no DNS server. Regardless of the type of network the computer is on, this file should contain a line specifying the IP address of the loopback device (127.0.0.1) as localhost.localdomain. For more information, refer to the hosts man page.

        /etc/resolv.conf
        This file specifies the IP addresses of DNS servers and the search domain. Unless configured to do otherwise, the network initialization scripts populate this file. For more information about this file, refer to the resolv.conf man page.

                - The file resolv.conf typically contains directives that specify the default search domains used for completing a given query name to a fully qualified domain name when no domain suffix is supplied. 
                
                - It also contains a list of IP addresses of nameservers for resolution. Additional name server directives after the first are only used when the first or last used server is unavailable. An example file is:

                search example.com local.test
                nameserver 1.1.1.1
                nameserver 8.8.8.8
                nameserver 9.9.9.10

                - disable auto update
                By default, NetworkManager on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 8 dynamically updates the /etc/resolv.conf file with the DNS settings from active NetworkManager connection profiles

                sudo vi /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/90-dns-none.conf
                [main]
                dns=none

                sudo systemctl status NetworkManager
                sudo systemctl start NetworkManager
                sudo systemctl reload NetworkManager

                sudo vi /etc/resolv.conf
                # Generated by NetworkManager
                search example.com
                nameserver 10.0.2.15

        /etc/sysconfig/network
        This file specifies routing and host information for all network interfaces. For more information about this file and the directives it accepts, refer to Section 27.1.22, “/etc/sysconfig/network”.

        /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-<interface-name>
        For each network interface, there is a corresponding interface configuration script. Each of these files provide information specific to a particular network interface. Refer to Section 13.2, “Interface Configuration Files” for more information on this type of file and the directives it accepts

- network interface

        Under Red Hat Enterprise Linux, all network communications occur between configured software interfaces and physical networking devices connected to the system.

        The configuration files for network interfaces are located in the /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ directory. The scripts used to activate and deactivate these network interfaces are also located here. Although the number and type of interface files can differ from system to system, there are three categories of files that exist in this directory:

        - Interface configuration files
        - Interface control scripts
        - Network function files

        The files in each of these categories work together to enable various network devices.
        This chapter explores the relationship between these files and how they are used.

- Interface configuration files

        Interface configuration files control the software interfaces for individual network devices. As the system boots, it uses these files to determine what interfaces to bring up and how to configure them. These files are usually named ifcfg-<name>, where <name> refers to the name of the device that the configuration file controls

        - Ethernet Interfaces
        One of the most common interface files is ifcfg-eth0, which controls the first Ethernet network interface card or NIC in the system. In a system with multiple NICs, there are multiple ifcfg-eth<X> files (where <X> is a unique number corresponding to a specific interface). Because each device has its own configuration file, an administrator can control how each interface functions individually.

        The following is a sample ifcfg-eth0 file for a system using a fixed IP address:

        DEVICE=eth0 
        BOOTPROTO=none 
        ONBOOT=yes 
        NETWORK=10.0.1.0 
        NETMASK=255.255.255.0 
        IPADDR=10.0.1.27 
        USERCTL=no

        - IPsec Interfaces
        The following example shows the ifcfg file for a network-to-network IPsec connection for LAN A. The unique name to identify the connection in this example is ipsec1, so the resulting file is named /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-ipsec1.

        TYPE=IPsec 
        ONBOOT=yes 
        IKE_METHOD=PSK 
        SRCNET=192.168.1.0/24 
        DSTNET=192.168.2.0/24 
        DST=X.X.X.X
        In the example above, X.X.X.X is the publicly routable IP address of the destination IPsec router
                
        - ...

- Interface control scripts

        ifup eth0
        ifdown eth0

        The easiest way to manipulate all network scripts simultaneously 
        e.g.
        /sbin/service network status
        /sbin/service network start/stop/restart

- Network function files

        The /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/network-functions file contains the most commonly used IPv4 functions, which are useful to many interface control scripts. These functions include contacting running programs that have requested information about changes in the status of an interface, setting hostnames, finding a gateway device, verifying whether or not a particular device is down, and adding a default route

- others

        - network interface of VM

                - before start vm, you can define serval network interface (without name like eht0)

                - when vm is started
                /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules is used to do some mapping
                between your defined interface without name and runtime interface by its name, like eht0, eth1 (check ifconfig)
                you can modify or delete it, need to reboot

                - interface setting with name is in file like /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0
                
                - usually when have issue, you need to check below stuff
                ifconfig
                ls /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/
                cat /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0
                cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
                rm /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
                service network restart
                service NetworkManager stop

        - example

                TYPE=Ethernet
                BOOTPROTO=none
                IPADDR=10.10.10.110
                PREFIX=24
                GATEWAY=10.10.10.111
                DEFROUTE=yes
                IPV4_FAILURE_FATAL=yes
                IPV6INIT=no
                NAME=eth0
                UUID=86d44060-4579-48cc-b85b-219a206ca37c
                ONBOOT=yes
                HWADDR=00:50:56:95:09:76
                LAST_CONNECT=1411004329
